well howdy there Internet people its Bo
again so today we're going to talk about
what Americans today can learn from the
American civil rights movement
two big strategic and philosophical
lessons that the American civil rights
movement can teach those today in the
United States who want deep systemic
change fifty years ago yesterday that
old myths for those overseas that's a
university in Mississippi forty students
they lined up outside the cafeteria
waiting for it to open when it opened
they went inside they got their trays
they sat down at different tables all
over the cafeteria then ate slowly and
waited man
when those white students came in they
were mad it was a demonstration and they
had some demands they had some requests
those black students that sat down at
those tables they had requests nothing
major but given the time that it was of
course the establishment did not graph
those requests they were met with mass
arrests
that moment was covered pretty well in
the news yesterday there were a lot of
little articles remembering it but only
saw one that put it into context that
really they really put it together so
there was a lesson that could be learned
at Ole Miss in 1962 eight years before
there was a riot a real one lasted two
days hundreds injured I want to say two
fatalities could be wrong on that
because that was the beginning of
integration the marshals had to come out
the National Guard eight years before
and they're still having to make a
quests there is no defining battle when
you're talking about deep systemic
change it's an ongoing campaign and it
takes a long time the wheels of justice
the wheels of change they move very very
slowly establishments are reluctant to
change even at a university eight years
after a riot
so that's one those today who want deep
systemic change they've got to be in it
for the long haul they've got to be
ready for a long campaign it's not going
to end in November guys it's got to be
something that you're committed to the
other thing is that it has to be about
an idea of movement that idea that
people can rally behind that idea that
moves people can't be about a person
cannot be about a person yeah you can
have major late leaders you can have
large personalities and major figures
you could have a Malcolm X and you can
have a dr. King you can have whoever you
want but they have to be about the idea
not the other way around
the people who follow them have to
follow them because of the ideas that
they espouse not because of their
personality when you make a movement
about a person it becomes incredibly
vulnerable if you do that a bullet in
Memphis can end it all it has to be
about the idea because the idea will
outlive any person
if they can't get them at the polls they
know there's other ways to get rid of a
major figure if they can't defeat them
politically they can smear them they can
arrange accidents there's all sorts of
things that have been done throughout
American history to neutralize large
movements that want systemic change it
cannot be about a person when you look
at authoritarian regimes you notice most
of don't last very long
yeah they cause a lot of problems while
they're here but most of them don't
really outlive that main cult of
personality because it's about the cult
of personality is about the person the
people following them don't actually
believe the stuff that they're spouting
they're following that personality you
can't become that it's got to be about
the ideas it's got to be about the
policies it's got to be about that deep
systemic change if it's about anything
else you're setting yourself up for
failure you will lose it cannot be about
a person that is something the American
civil rights movement greatly understood
and because they recognized that and
they focused on the idea on the dream
that's why they were successful because
it didn't matter what the functionaries
of the establishment did to any
individual the idea the movement kept
going you make it about a person you
make it about an individual some
personality you will lose got to avoid
that there are plenty of ideas that
people can rally behind there are enough
people that want that deep systemic
change that want justice
just got a rally home anyway it's just a
thought y'all have a good day